--- Page 26 ---
CIS Controls:
Controls
Control IG 1 IG 2 IG 3
Version
14.1 Establish and Maintain a Security Awareness
Program
Establish and maintain a security awareness program. The purpose of a security
v8 ● ● ●
awareness program is to educate the enterprise’s workforce on how to interact with
enterprise assets and data in a secure manner. Conduct training at hire and, at a
minimum, annually. Review and update content annually, or when significant
enterprise changes occur that could impact this Safeguard.
17.3 Implement a Security Awareness Program
Create a security awareness program for all workforce members to complete on
v7 a regular basis to ensure they understand and exhibit the necessary behaviors and ● ● ●
skills to help ensure the security of the organization. The organization's security
awareness program should be communicated in a continuous and engaging
manner.
Page 25
--- Page 27 ---
1.1.3 Ensure 'Enable Log on High DP Load' is enabled
(Automated)
Profile Applicability:
• Level 1
Description:
Enable the option 'Enable Log on High DP Load' feature. When this option is selected, a
system log entry is created when the device’s packet processing load reaches 100%
utilization.
Rationale:
When the device’s packet processing load reaches 100%, a degradation in the
availability of services accessed through the device can occur. Logging this event can
help with troubleshooting system performance.
Impact:
Sustained attacks, especially volumetric DOS and DDOS attacks will often affect CPU
utilization. This setting will generate an event that is easily monitored for and alerted on.
While setting CPU utilization watermarks in a Network Management System is a
standard practice, this setting does not depend on even having an NMS, it doesn't
require anything other than standard logging to implement.
Audit:
Navigate to Device > Setup > Management > Logging and Reporting Settings
> Log Export and Reporting.
Verify Enable Log on High DP Load is checked.
Remediation:
Navigate to Device > Setup > Management > Logging and Reporting Settings
> Log Export and Reporting.
Set the Enable Log on High DP Load box to checked.
Default Value:
Not enabled
References:
1. "Logging Best Practices" - https://live.paloaltonetworks.com/t5/best-practice-
assessment-device/logging-and-reporting-settings-log-on-high-dp-mode/ta-
p/336964
Page 26